If there's one thing we have learned this entire time in this course is that there is nothing static
about being a web developer.
Improvements are constantly made all the time.
In Asia Mel CSX and JavaScript and even the browsers get constantly updated libraries are also constantly
being created.
If you remember libraries are just pieces of code they could be CSX they could be a shemale they could
be javascript pieces of code written by somebody else so that we can use it so we don't have to start
from scratch.
Now it's human nature to want to constantly improve and in this video we're going to learn the new features
that everybody will be using.
But first let's recap something from our previous videos if you remember javascript was created by the
Netscape browser and everybody else all the other browsers started using JavaScript So Netscape submitted
javascript to something called the AMA international so that JavaScript could be standardized and they
could say hey everybody use this version of JavaScript on all browsers that's what it must script is.
My script is well it's javascript but it's just the standard way of calling it so that when the browsers
implement what javascript should do and how they read javascript.
Well everybody agrees on the standard now.
Every time you see something like this like E6 and you'll see that quite a lot.
IOS 6 just stands for Aqua script version 6.
So yes there was a script version one all the way through 6 and we're currently it's version 7 but it's
still new.
So we're only learning version 5 and version 6 for now but version 5 and version 6.
Introduce some new features that are really really powerful and make coding in JavaScript really really
nice.
And most code bases that you'll see in 2018 will be using these features as a very very exciting topic
for me.
It's one of my favorite parts of JavaScript now and I'm excited to show you some of these new features
that will make your life a whole lot easier now.
One thing you might be thinking though is Andre I don't want to learn something if browsers don't support
them and I can't actually use them.
But don't worry my friend.
These are all features that are supported.
You know why.
Well mainly because of something called Babel.
You see a few years ago programming created Babel so that developers can start using new javascript
features as they come.
Remember Xmas script releases versions all the time now without having to wait for browsers to implement
these features.
Babel allowed us to well to use them right away.
Now how did they do that.
Let's have a look.
If I go in to try it out here you'll see that Babel shows me something I can write and will learn the
syntax soon enough don't worry I can write something like this which is the new way of writing javascript
with Acme scripts X and it compiles into this.
Now what does that mean.
It means that it reads a file line by line and then changes it to a version of JavaScript that all browsers
know and it works on all browsers.
When we actually deploy our application or Web site which means putting it online after we're done with
it we can use Babel to say hey read our JavaScript file and transform it into this.
So it works on all browsers so without even thinking about it you can write all your code in the newest
and best way of writing it.
You can see how clean this is and Babel will take care of changing everything for you so that browsers
can read it.
Isn't that awesome enough that let's learn some new sin taxes.
And don't be afraid.
Yes 5 and yes 6 made javascript a whole lot easier and more fun to write from now on will we take what
we learn in this video to write all our code because it's what the industry is using right now.
And this is why you will get asked during interviews.
So let's get started.
The first feature I'm going to show you is let and cost.
These are actually very very simple.
These are new ways of declaring variables.
So if you see over here in our section online you see that JavaScript variables has now two new ways
of declaring a variable and as a matter of fact variable that we've been using up to this point we don't
really need to use it ever again.
We now have something called let to show you how both of these work.
Let's do a small example.
I'm going to say const player and constants for constant will say Bobby and we'll say let experience
equals to 100 and we'll say let wizard level equal to False now if I do something like If experience
is greater than 90 then
goes stay true OK.
So these look like variables nothing's different.
Let's run this through the console and see what happens okay.
If I now check wizard level
faults.
That's that's strange right.
Because in the previous video where we talked about the scope for had wizard level has a variable I
would have gotten true here.
So if this was variable and this was variable wizard level instead of being false will be true.
Now that's confusing right.
That's because it's not inside of a function.
This is a little bit tricky but with variable we only we're able to create a scope inside of a function
but never if it had curly brackets but inside of F with let when I say let and let well now I've created
a wizard level variable inside of if so the only way that I can access this is INSIDE THE F if I do
console door log wizard level here
and console dialogue wizard level outside and then let's put inside
and outside if I copy this paste that in inside I get true outside I get false because now with let
any time it's wrapped around a curly bracket well it creates a new scope versus with a variable if I
change this to a variable
and I copy this again and refresh
if I copy this I get inside equals to true and outside equals to true because wizard level has already
been changed no new scope is created inside the curly brackets because this isn't a function now I know
that's a really really confusing.
But the one big takeaway from this is just don't use variable anymore variable is actually quite confusing.
Now think of let as the new variable.
So from now on we're gonna be using left for variables.
But what is const well const is even cooler.
Watch this.
If I want to change the experience level I can say experience equals 80 and now if I look at experience
well experience equals 80.
But if I want to change the player Bobby to a new name equals Sally I get an error assignment to constant
variable.
What that means is a constant.
You're not able to reassign to the variable so it cannot be updated.
Now why would that be useful.
It's really really useful because a lot of bugs happen when you're working in a team of people.
If you have something like player and somebody changes the name of the player while you're working on
a program and you still think it's Bobby and you keep getting errors because somebody else has touched
it well that's that's a bit of an issue isn't it.
But using costs you make sure that this player variable will always have the same value.
So this is actually very very useful and my recommendation is that if you have anything that isn't going
to change it should be a constant.
So a function could be a constant because well if this function or if the assignment of A is not going
to change then we feel a lot safer using const then let's say let because we make sure that nobody assigns
something else to a so.
The rule from now on is use cons if you're using a variable that doesn't change most of the time you'll
use this and fear using a variable die you reassigned something to like Wizard level where it changes
from true to false false true.
Well then you'd let one thing with cost that you have to keep in mind is that if you do a cost object
equals player Bobby experience one hundred and Wizard level two false.
Well if I copy this object and try to reassign this object to say a number I get an error because it's
a constant but if I try and change a property
now my wizard level is too true.
So one thing with constant is you can change the properties of the objects still you just can't reassign
the variable right onto more fun things
let's do these structuring and these ones that I'm going to show you are gonna make your life a whole
lot easier again if we actually have our object here.
Let's say that we wanted to grab these objects so we'll have to do a concert player equals object up
player we'll do concerts experience equals object dots experience and then let wizard level equals object
dots.
Wizard level was a whole lot of typing to access these properties well with the structuring you can
do this.
You can say const player and experience
the object so with this syntax it does the exact same thing as the first two lines over here.
You just select the properties you want from an object and now you have cost player and experience available
to you so you can use player anywhere you want in your code base and therefore let me can do wizard
level equals
much much cleaner.
You just have to get used to it.
But it's a lot nicer to look at.
All right.
Another thing cool thing you can do with objects concept name equals John Snow we can just start a new
object here and we can say now name is hello and we can do Ray Smith.
Hi all right.
So this is a silly object but I wanted to show you some new ways of declaring object properties
now in yes 6.
You can have instead of the old way of having just player or experience or wizard level we can have
something dynamic that we can assign like John Snow or we can do Ray plus myth or we can do one plus
two and have these dynamic property values.
Let me show you how they work
if I access object.
Now I have three equals hi hi and John Snow equals hello again new ways of declaring properties very
useful if you need to calculate something for the property value but even cooler is being able to do
something like this imagine you had a cost a equals to Simon
cost B equals two true and cost C is an empty object and if we wanted to add these to an object we would
have had to do a is a B as B and C is C and sometimes you wanted the property to match the value again
with the new javascript if property and value are the same in that case we can just say A B C so we
can remove we can remove the declaration that we have with property and value if they're the same and
just keep it like this.
Again this is something that when we get to the react section it's going to become very very useful.
All right.
Something even more fun and this time it's templates strings so template strings.
Now remember when we have let's say a greeting how knowing it was that we had to do.
Hello
name plus you seem to be doing plus greeting and then say you had an exclamation mark and you also had
to worry about backslash if you had an apostrophe that was really tedious and annoying.
Now he knew something really fun instead of doing it this way you can have greeting fast equals something
called templates strings and these are back ticks.
So the back ticks that this is right above your tap key if you're on a Mac instead of using double quotes
or single quotes this means Templar strings and now you can use double quotes or single quotes anywhere
you want and there'll be a string but even cooler if you have name equals Sally and age equals thirty
four Pat is horse.
Now we can do Hello
name.
You seem to be notice the syntax and the colouring age minus 10.
What a lovely
pet you have
so notice what we did here.
I'm going to copy this just so we have it a comment this out.
Now if I look into the console I'll refresh you see that now instead of doing all that double quotes
and plus and worrying about spacing within these back ticks I can say a piece of string and then add
dynamically by using the dollar sign then the curly brackets of value that we want we can again do any
sort of expression.
So age minus 10.
What a lovely pet you have.
Let's see what happens if I do.
Greeting best that.
Hello Sally.
You seem to be twenty four.
What a lovely horse you have very cool.
So this is very very useful.
We'll be definitely using this later on in the course.
Another thing I want to show you is default arguments can do something like great we'll say name equals
empty string age equals 30 and we'll say Pat
is cat.
Let's just copy what we had before with the greeting.
I'm going to comment this out
and we'll return this.
So nothing's changed.
We just have a function that returns a greeting the only thing that's new is this we show you what it
does if I comment this out.
I copy this.
Put it into the console.
And now I run Grete Hello.
You seem to be 20.
What a lovely cat you have do you catch that even though our browser and let me just refresh so you
know for sure that our browser has no idea of what age or pet is.
But if I run this function
because of the way I made the parameters I gave them default arguments which says if I don't provide
a value for name which I haven't I haven't given any arguments.
Well then make name empty string make age 30 and make pet cat if I do now greet John 50 and we'll do
monkey.
Now I get.
Hello John.
You seem to be 40.
What a lovely monkey you have this gets ignored because I've passed it parameters but otherwise I can
pass a default parameter so that when somebody calls this function and they don't provide these arguments
my function won't fail because well I have default arguments very cool.
All right what else do we have.
Let's refresh here if you remember we had one more type to do javascript types and that is a symbol.
It's actually not used very often but I wanted to show you just because while it's a type we want to
complete the seven types of JavaScript and a symbol is special because.
Symbol 1 I create a symbol by doing this index and I can have a second symbol that is symbol and within
here we can put anything we can put foo and variable symbol 3 equals symbol and we'll say foo as well.
What's so unique about symbols and we should be using Paulette here if I copy this and I access someone
I get symbol access Sim to I get Foo and same 3 I get food but the unique thing is that if I do Sim
2 equals Sim 3 I get false even though well they look like they're the exact same thing and symbols
are used because they create these completely unique type so that you can make sure there's never going
to be any conflict and the symbol value is used as an indented fire mostly for object properties it's
pretty much the only purpose of that because sometimes you don't want object properties if you have
thousands of them to collide and be the same ones because then you'll get bugs we won't see it too much
in the course you won't see it out in the wild too much but I wanted to show you it regardless because
while we want to know all the javascript types all right.
One last one I know we've covered a lot but this is the best one and that is arrow functions.
Up to this point if we wanted to do something like add we had to do a b and return a plus b and you
might have gotten sick and tired of constantly writing function over and over and over well now you
have our functions.
So with an error function you can do
so anytime you see this syntax and I had to pass a and b here as well.
Anytime you see this syntax it's the same thing as saying function but now is just the shorthand form
so that you don't have to constantly write function and the beauty of it is that you could have done
return and B and that completely work.
So the only difference is that we have a function expression that accepts a parameter and we have this
fat Haro but with an error function.
If you have a single return
you can just put it on one line and it assumes that you want to return this.
If I save this and copy it in here I don't need the syntax let's copy that one more time.
Add 4 and 2 that's the first function and then the new way with the error function.
Add to for to again I get the same thing.
It returns automatically because everything while it's on one line it looks very very nice a lot easier
to write than the above.
And there you have it.
I know that was a lot of information.
Make sure you do the exercises after this video to get yourself familiar with the syntax is just new
ways of doing things.
These are going to help you to write better cleaner code and just to show you what we've covered you've
managed to finish everything in the section outline form variables to conditionals to finally the error
function.
We've covered everything that we've wanted to for JavaScript and moving forward.
We're gonna be using these new syntax is to write our code.
I hope you're excited as I am to start using these.
I'll see you in the next one.